Add Build Pipeline Documentation (#454)
vtex/faststore: docs/wip/build-pipeline.md

### Build the store
- Run an automated build for the store, saving all the generated artifacts in our infrastructure.
- Send the build logs to GitHub.
The build logs are visible by clicking on `details` on the `Build` check run once its completed.

![Store Framework Jamstack CI build check completed](./../images/build_check_completed.png)

#### Possible states
- `queued`: soon this step will be executed.
- `in_progress`: this step is being executed.
- `completed/success`: the build is completed successfuly.
- `completed/failure`: the build is completed but something went wrong.

### Generate a deploy preview 
For each pull request we provide a `Deploy Preview` that is a deploy of the most recent changes of the pull request.
You can access the `Deploy Preview` of a specific Pull Request by clicking on `details` on the commit status with the title `<your store>/deploy-preview`:  

![Store Framework Jamstack CI deploy preview commit status](./../images/deploy_preview_commit_status.png)

Or directly on this url: `https://preview-<pull request number>--<your store name>.vtex.app/`.  
For example: `https://preview-417--storecomponents.vtex.app/`.

## SonarQube

> SonarQube is used to mesasure and analyse code quality using static analysis.

Reviewer: I think it would be good to refer our sonarqube documentation article here
```suggestion
[SonarQube](sonarqube.md) is used to measure and analyze code quality using static analysis.
```

Author: I've added a reference at the end of this section: https://github.com/vtex/faststore/pull/454/files#diff-826dc95bc82f085c38d55b2082027de2fb0ac5e9ba6d5eb96ead2cc514751a69R59

Reviewer: Awesome! Could you just fix the typos in this line then?

Author: Great catches. Thanks!

> ## Steps of the pipeline
> Store Framework Jamstack CI flow consists of 4 main steps: `Build`, `SonarQube`, `Integration Tests`, and `Lighthouse CI`. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Build pipeline

Store Framework Jamstack (SFJ) CI flow consists of 4 main steps: Build, SonarQube, Integration Tests, and Lighthouse CI.
```

![Store Framework Jamstack CI flow](./../images/ci_flow.png)

> This flow is triggered by two situations:
> 1. When a pull request is created.
> 2. When a push with commits associated with a pull request is made.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Two situations trigger this CI flow:

1. Creating a pull request.
2. Making a git push to push commits associated with a pull request.
```

> When this happens, a check suite is created and populated with check runs that show the state of each step.
> The initial state of each step is `queued`. This indicates that soon they will be executed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In both cases, GitHub creates a [check suite](https://docs.github.com/en/free-pro-team@latest/rest/guides/getting-started-with-the-checks-api#about-check-suites) and populates it with [check runs](https://docs.github.com/en/free-pro-team@latest/rest/guides/getting-started-with-the-checks-api#about-check-runs). 

Each check run shows the step state of a specific test.
```

![Store Framework Jamstack CI checks](./../images/queued_check_runs.png)

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

The initial state of each step is `queued`. This status indicates that the test execution is pending and will start soon.
```

## Build

> This step is responsible for two main things:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Build step is responsible for two main actions:

- Build the store.
- Generate a deploy preview.
```

### Build the store

> - Run an automated build for the store, saving all the generated artifacts in our infrastructure.
> - Send the build logs to GitHub.
> The build logs are visible by clicking on `details` on the `Build` check run once it's completed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

The Build step runs an automated build for the store, saving all the generated artifacts in the VTEX infrastructure. Then, the Build step sends all the build logs to GitHub. 

>ℹ️ *Once finished, you can click on the *Details* button next to the Build check run to check the build logs.*
```

![Store Framework Jamstack CI build check completed](./../images/build_check_completed.png)

> #### Possible states
> - `queued`: soon this step will be executed.
> - `in_progress`: this step is being executed.
> - `completed/success`: the build is completed successfully.
> - `completed/failure`: the build is completed but something went wrong.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Build check run can have one of the following values, with each one of them indicating that the Build step:

- `queued` - will start being executed soon.
- `in_progress` - is being executed.
- `completed/success` - completed successfully.
- `completed/failure` - completed, but something went wrong.
```

### Generate a deploy preview 

> For each pull request, we provide a `Deploy Preview` that is a deployment of the most recent changes of the pull request.
> You can access the `Deploy Preview` of a specific Pull Request by clicking on `details` on the commit status with the title `<your store>/deploy-preview`:  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

For each pull request, the Build step generates a *Deploy Preview*.

>ℹ️ *A Deploy preview is a snapshot of what your store will look like after merging your latest deployments.*

Once the commit status updates to `{store-name}/deploy-preview`, you'll be able to access the *Deploy Preview* of a specific Pull Request by clicking on *Details*.
```

![Store Framework Jamstack CI deploy preview commit status](./../images/deploy_preview_commit_status.png)

> Or directly on this url: `https://preview-<pull request number>--<your store name>.vtex.app/`.  
> For example: `https://preview-417--storecomponents.vtex.app/`.
> 
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

## SonarQube

[SonarQube](sonarqube.md) is used to measure and analyze code quality using static analysis.

> Everytime that the CI flow is triggered, a static analysis of the code is made taking into account the latest changes of the pull request. If any issues are found by sonarqube, they will be marked as annotations on the pull request like so:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Every time that the CI flow is triggered, a static analysis of the code is made taking into account the latest changes of the pull request. If any issues are found by sonarqube, they will be marked as annotations on the pull request like so:
```

> [SonarQube](sonarqube.md) is used to measure and analyze code quality using static analysis.
> 
> Every time that the CI flow is triggered, a static analysis of the code is made taking into account the latest changes of the pull request. If any issues are found by sonarqube, they will be marked as annotations on the pull request like so:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[SonarQube](sonarqube.md) measures and analyzes code quality through [static analysis](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Static_program_analysis).

If the test detects any issues in the code included in a given pull request, SonarQube provides annotations as in the following:
```

![Store Framework Jamstack CI sonarqube annotations](./../images/sonarqube_annotation.png)

#### Possible states
- `queued`: soon this step will be executed.
- `in_progress`: this step is being executed.

> - `completed/success`: Sonarqube didn't found any critial issues.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- `completed/success`: Sonarqube didn't found any critical issues.
```

> #### Possible states
> - `queued`: soon this step will be executed.
> - `in_progress`: this step is being executed.
> - `completed/success`: Sonarqube didn't found any critical issues.
> - `completed/failure`: There is at least one critical issue found by sonarqube.
> 
> More information can be found [here](./sonarqube.md)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

## Lighthouse CI

> Lighthouse is a tool that is used to monitor the performance of a website, and it is executed each time a new build is completed, using the `Deploy Preview` as the source of analysis. This results are agregated and allows the developer to compare the performance of whats being developed with what is in production.  

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Lighthouse is a tool that is used to monitor the performance of a website, and it is executed each time a new build is completed, using the `Deploy Preview` as the source of analysis. These results are aggregated and allow the developer to compare the performance of whats being developed with what is in production.  
```

> Lighthouse is a tool that is used to monitor the performance of a website, and it is executed each time a new build is completed, using the `Deploy Preview` as the source of analysis. These results are aggregated and allow the developer to compare the performance of whats being developed with what is in production.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

Lighthouse CI executes [Lighthouse](https://developers.google.com/web/tools/lighthouse) each time a new build is completed, providing insights on how the performance varied with the pull request changes.

>ℹ️ *[Lighthouse](https://developers.google.com/web/tools/lighthouse) is an open-source, automated tool created by Google, capable of identifying common problems related to the quality of a webpage through audits.*

As the source of analysis, the Lighthouse CI uses the Deploy Preview generated by the Build step.

This way, the test results can be used to compare what is being developed with what is in production.

>ℹ️ *Once finished, you can click on the *Details* button next to the Lighthouse check run to check the execution logs.*
```

You can access the execution logs by clicking on `details` at the `Lighthouse` check.  
![Store Framework Jamstack CI lhci check completed](./../images/lhci_check_completed.png)

#### Possible states
- `queued`: soon this step will be executed.
- `in_progress`: this step is being executed.

> - `completed/success`: Lighthouse CI is completed successfuly.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- `completed/success`: Lighthouse CI is completed successfully.
```

- `completed/failure`: Something went wrong.

> - `completed/canceled`: The build was not successfull, therefore the Lighthouse CI can't be executed.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- `completed/canceled`: The build was not successful, therefore the Lighthouse CI can't be executed.
```

> 
> You can access the execution logs by clicking on `details` at the `Lighthouse` check.  
> ![Store Framework Jamstack CI lhci check completed](./../images/lhci_check_completed.png)
> 
> #### Possible states
> - `queued`: soon this step will be executed.
> - `in_progress`: this step is being executed.
> - `completed/success`: Lighthouse CI is completed successfully.
> - `completed/failure`: Something went wrong.
> - `completed/canceled`: The build was not successful, therefore the Lighthouse CI can't be executed.
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Author: It is important to explicit the possible states of LHCI and Integration tests steps as they are influenced by the result of the Build Step.

## Integration Tests

Store Framework Jamstack CI flow support integration tests implemented with Cypress.

> Each time a build is completed, the integrations tests are executed using as url the `Deploy Preview` generated with the latest changes on the current pull request.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Each time a build is completed, the integrations tests are executed using as URL the `Deploy Preview` generated with the latest changes on the current pull request.
```

> The results of the tests can be seen directy on GitHub, by clicking on `details` at the `Integration Tests` check.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The results of the tests can be seen directly on GitHub, by clicking on `details` at the `Integration Tests` check.
```

> Store Framework Jamstack CI flow support integration tests implemented with Cypress.
> Each time a build is completed, the integrations tests are executed using as URL the `Deploy Preview` generated with the latest changes on the current pull request.
> 
> The results of the tests can be seen directly on GitHub, by clicking on `details` at the `Integration Tests` check.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Integration tests evaluate the project compliance by combining individual applications and testing them as a group. 

SFJ CI flow supports integration tests implemented with [Cypress](https://www.cypress.io/.

After completing the Build step, SFJ CI flow executes the integrations tests with the URL generated by the Deploy Preview.

>ℹ️ *Once finished, you can click on the *Details* button next to the Integration Tests check run to check the test results.*
```

![Store Framework Jamstack CI integration tests check completed](./../images/integration_tests_check_completed.png)

![Store Framework Jamstack CI integration tests results](./../images/integration_tests_results.png)

> More information can be found [here](./e2e-testing.md)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
>ℹ️ *For more information on how to to write end-to-end (E2E) tests for modern web applications with Cypress, follow [this link.](./e2e-testing.md)*
```

#### Possible states
- `queued`: soon this step will be executed.
- `in_progress`: this step is being executed.

> - `completed/success`: All tests passed successfuly.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- `completed/success`: All tests passed successfully.
```

- `completed/failure`: At least one test failed.

> - `completed/canceled`: The build was not successfull, therefore the Integrations Tests can't be executed.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- `completed/canceled`: The build was not successful, therefore the Integrations Tests can't be executed.
```

> #### Possible states
> - `queued`: soon this step will be executed.
> - `in_progress`: this step is being executed.
> - `completed/success`: All tests passed successfully.
> - `completed/failure`: At least one test failed.
> - `completed/canceled`: The build was not successful, therefore the Integrations Tests can't be executed.
> - `completed/neutral`: There are no integration tests implemented.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Author: It is important to explicit the possible states of LHCI and Integration tests steps as they are influenced by the result of the Build Step.

# Build pipeline

Store Framework Jamstack (SFJ) CI flow consists of 4 main steps: 

- [Build](#build) - runs an automated build for the store and generates a deploy preview.
- [SonarQube](#sonarqube) - measures and analyzes code quality using static analysis.

> - [Integration Tests](#integration-test) - implements integration tests with [Cypress.](https://www.cypress.io/)
> - [Lighthouse CI](#lighthouse-ci) - provides insights on how performance changed with the new developments.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [Lighthouse CI](#lighthouse-ci) - provides insights on how performance changed with the new developments.
- [Integration Tests](#integration-test) - implements integration tests with [Cypress.](https://www.cypress.io/)
```

If the test detects any issues in the code of a given pull request, SonarQube provides annotations as in the following:

![Store Framework Jamstack CI sonarqube annotations](./../images/sonarqube_annotation.png)

## Lighthouse CI

Lighthouse CI executes [Lighthouse](https://developers.google.com/web/tools/lighthouse) each time a new build is completed, providing insights on how the performance varied with the pull request changes.

>ℹ️ *[Lighthouse](https://developers.google.com/web/tools/lighthouse) is an open-source, automated tool created by Google, capable of identifying common problems related to the quality of a webpage through audits.*

As the source of analysis, the Lighthouse CI uses the Deploy Preview generated by the Build step.

This way, the test results can be used to compare what is being developed with what is in production.

>ℹ️ *Once finished, you can click on the *Details* button next to the Lighthouse check run to check the execution logs.*

## Integration Tests

Integration tests evaluate the project compliance by combining individual applications and testing them as a group. 

> SFJ CI flow supports integration tests implemented with [Cypress](https://www.cypress.io/.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
SFJ CI flow supports integration tests implemented with [Cypress.](https://www.cypress.io/)
```
